[//]: # (title: Introduction)

## Introduction

Studying Qodana reports generated by multiple Qodana instances can become a tedious task 
when your project is developed by several teams that work independently and each team uses its own IT infrastructure 
and virtual private networks. Apparently, this situation calls for a centralized solution that would be able to gather
information about code quality across the project(s) in the real-time mode and display it in a consolidated and 
digestible form.

**Qodana Cloud** is a cloud-based solution that helps you see the progress in your project from the single point. 
And this is the basic difference between Qodana and Qodana Cloud: while Qodana analyzes your code and generates reports 
on-site, this information can then be forwarded to Qodana Cloud. 

## Qodana Cloud use-cases

Below is a short list of use-cases when Qodana Cloud can be helpful.

Project managers or product owners who need to evaluate the quality metrics of their product. 
In case you primary job is management rather than coding, so you are responsible for answering the questions like
"Where are we?" and "How things are going?" at any time. You can track the progress using reports from VCS and task
managers, but monitoring of code quality is missing, and you cannot tell about quality by looking at the code. 
Besides that, you will barely find resources to observe each quality report individually. Instead, seeing the  
overall picture with Qodana Cloud would be a solution.

Outsourcing companies that resell developers' work and need to be confident they completely fulfill their agreements.
Outsourcing companies usually deal with lots of various projects from different fields, which makes it difficult to be 
expert in all of them. Oftentimes, software products are developed on the customers' side, but quality monitoring is 
still part of your work. Using Qodana Cloud as an aggregator of Qodana reports will definitely help you in this case. 

Companies that rely heavily on open source software and need to be confident about it. Modern software products often 
resort to open source libraries to perform specific tasks. This approach saves companies time and money. Unfortunately,
nobody could confirm the absence of critical bugs in them, and you have nobody to ask for a compensation. If you use
Qodana on GitHub, you will be able to monitor quality of open source software you use in your project. But if your 
project uses tens or hundreds of libraries, this becomes a challenging task. Besides that, development of open source 
software remains out of your control. Using Qodana Cloud solves this problem too.

Companies that purchase software from third-party vendors. In case your company buys software from the outside, you 
still need to make sure that its quality meets your expectations. Using Qodana will give you detailed reports generated 
by tried-and-tested software from JetBrains, and Qodana Cloud is the best aggregator of reports for all Qodana instances.

## Get access to Qodana Cloud

You can get access to Qodana Cloud via an invitation link. After you click the invitation link, the signup form will 
appear. Here, you can create your JBA (JetBrains account) or use your existing JBA. Once done, you need to specify the 
account type, either **commercial** or **personal**. The first type of account is used by organization, the second can be 
applied for personal use only. 

<!-- All organizations should be renamed to the commercial account-->
<!-- Add here how to bind organization name to the account-->
<!-- What is a project -->
<!-- What is a group of projects -->

The commercial account is used to create an organization account within Qodana Cloud, and manage all its projects:

<!-- This should be the basic set of cases for all types of accounts -->

* Create, modify, and delete projects
* Group projects
* Add new users to the organization
* Receive, read, and delete reports
* Modify and update the organization information

The personal type of account can be used only for personal purposes. Each personal user is associated with 
*My organization*. User of the **personal** type of account can perform the following actions:

* Create, modify, and delete projects
* Group projects
* Receive, read, and delete reports

After the first login, you will be assigned the [Administrator](#Administrator) role. 

## User roles

Qodana Cloud supports the following user roles:

* [Viewer](#viewer)
* [Administrator](#administrator)
* [Editor](#editor)

### Viewer

A **viewer** is a user role that has no account at Qodana Cloud. A user with this role can view the list of publicly
available reports. To start using the Qodana Cloud functionalities, a Qodana Cloud account needs to be created, after
then the user becomes either [**editor**](#editor) or [**administrator**](#administrator).

### Administrator

<!-- I think permissions need to be grouped into an ACL table-->
<!-- I need to clarify what projects and groups are-->

The **administrator** role is automatically assigned to the first Qodana Cloud account created within an organization. 
This role has the following permissions:

* Create new users linked to the account, both the administrator and viewer roles
* Update and delete the existing users of both roles
* View and manage reports
* Create projects and groups
* Group projects into project groups
* Group the existing users and reports
* Manage the account, including the complete deletion from Qodana cloud

### Editor

The editor role is similar to administrator with several exceptions:

*



## Change profile information
<!-- This needs to be described here -->

## Managing users

## Creating projects and groups

## Viewing and managing reports

## Grouping users and reports

## Managing the account

## Thoughts from meetings
Project group:

Personal account and commercial accounts
And two types of users

I need to document all workflows based on the use-cases.

Login from a corporate email account can be used.

Projects should be separated by projects.  Group of projects can be used as well.
Projects or teams should be hierarchical. Not teams not projects

Reports are sent based on a token.

Groups will be used like Idea's group.

I need to document that admin users can create other admin users. But there are no editors here.
