[//]: # (title: New in version 2024.2)

<var name="insp-url" value="https://www.jetbrains.com/help/inspectopedia"/>
<var name="android-lint" value="https://developer.android.com/studio/write/lint"/>
<var name="hc-passwords" value="https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/Use_of_hard-coded_password"/>

Version 2024.2 of %instance% contains several linter and inspection updates. 

## Linter updates

[Native mode](native-mode.md) of %product% is now available on Linux, macOS and Microsoft Windows for 
[](jvm.md), [](python.md), [](php.md), [](js.md), [](golang.md), and [](dotnet.md) (only the %dotnet% linter) projects.

The [%dotnet%](dotnet.md) linter now supports the [quick-fix](quick-fix.md) feature. 

The [%clang%](clang.md) linter can now run various Clang versions. By default, the `latest`  version employs 
Clang 16.0.0, but you can select the version in the range between 15 and 18 of Clang.

## Inspection updates

<tip>To learn more about inspections employed by %product%, you can visit the <a href="%insp-url%">Inspectopedia website</a>.</tip>

The [%php%](php.md) linter can by default analyze JavaScript and TypeScript projects like [%js%](js.md).

The %jvm-a% and %jvm-co-a% [linters](jvm.md) now support the [Android Lint](%android-lint%) inspections. These inspections let you 
analyze projects from Android-related perspective to improve such aspects as performance, security and bug fixing.

The [JVM-based](jvm.md) linters provide the inspection that finds typos while comparing two object fields.
Sometimes such typos could be difficult to find, but they could lead to probable bugs, for example: 

```Java
boolean comparePoints(Point p1, Point p2) {
	return p1.getX() == p2.getX() && p1.getY() == p1.getY();
}
```

The new inspection can find typos in such comparisons of values and report them.

Finally, version 2024.2 of %product% introduces the `HardcodedPasswords` inspection that detects 
[hard-coded passwords](%hc-passwords%) and covers the [](js.md), [](jvm.md), [](php.md), [](golang.md), [](python.md), 
[C#](dotnet.md), JSON, YAML, and XML languages. For more information, see the [](detect-passwords.md) use case.