[//]: # (title: Qodana IntelliJ Output Formats)

## Basic output

- **log/**: contains  `idea.log`, `gradle.log`, and so on.
- **projectStructure/**: metainformation about your project: modules, frameworks/libraries, roots, and so on.
- **report/**: HTML report (generated via `--save-report`/`--show-report`).
- **profile.xml**: effective profile in the IntelliJ IDEA format: all inspections and their configurations. Depends on the settings of the inspections that are specified in IDEA plugins and run in IDEA.
- **.descriptions.json**: descriptions for all inspections.
- **%InspectionId%.json**: all problems generated by the inspection with this ID: `%InspectionId%` message, place, severity, and so on.
- **report.sarif**: report in the [SARIF](qodana-intellij-docker-sarif.md) format.

An example of the Qodana command-line summary output:
```shell
---- Qodana - Code Inspection ----

2 problem(s) with Critical severity
- Category(ies): General

1 problem(s) with Moderate severity
- Category(ies): Code style

---- Problems reported: 3 ----
```
Full Qodana results are available in the file `results-allProblems.json` located in the `results-dir` folder.

## UI-compatible output

In addition to programmatic output, you can generate a human-readable report in the HTML format by using the `--save-report` argument.

### Learn more

* How to open a generated report in your browser: [Open an HTML Report](html-report.md)

* Basic structure and configuration of Qodana HTML reports: [UI Overview](ui-overview.md)

* More information on command-line arguments for the Qodana IntelliJ linter: [Docker Image Paths and Configuration Options](qodana-intellij-docker-techs.md)